# Building StarterCameras And What Comes After

Written on July 24th in the year 2019.

---

About 4 years ago I purchased the domain [startercameras.com](https://startercameras.com) with the intention of building some sort of project out of it. I never did. I bounced back and forth between different ideas and how viable each one was. When I finally picked an idea I was excited about, I ruminated on the different technolgies I could learn and use to build out the project. 

Now, in the back half of 2019, I've finally finished V1 of [startercameras.com](https://startercameras.com) after changing up how I approach building personal projects. Going back to that piece about thinking too long on tools to use, I learned something about myself earlier this year; that if I spent too much time focusing on idea implementation, I would never actually get around to building. Maybe this already has a known term, but I'll call it idea paralysis for now. 

In recognizing this tendency towards idea paralysis I started asking myself the question "What is the easiest win I can get right now?" With [startercameras.com](https://startercameras.com), I decided it would be a list of beginner friendly cameras based on the wisdom of the crowd. I wanted to search for and analyze questions like 'what is the best camera for beginners?' and keep track of how many times any given camera body was mentioned. As I was thinking about how to achieve this, one idea that came to mind was building a webscraper to collect data. It wasn't long into researching that strategy when I realized the risk for idea paralysis was high. If I spent much longer on investigating web scraping I would most likely not build out [startercameras.com](https://startercameras.com).

In response to this I wrote down the web scraping idea for later and switched gears. I decided the easiest win I could get in the moment, even if it took a lot of time, was to collect data manually. I combed through user driven forums like Reddit and recorded any time a specific camera was recommended to beginners. While doing this I didn't want to worry about standing up a database to store data in so I kept all my results in a google sheet. This brought up another question about implementation: if I was using sheets as my impromptu data storage method, how would I convert that data into usable JSON when the time came to populate my application with data? One possible solution was to write a script that would read the sheet and transform the data in it to JSON. This idea was attractive to me because it would again give me the opportunity to use a language and tool I hadn't yet used. 